# 1 - REQREP
`REQUEST / REPLY` is the cornerstone of virtually every networked
application. A client calls a service, the service performs a computation and
sends data back.

In browser land this is often referred to as an "API call", which almost always
uses JSON as the encoding layer (JSON over HTTP/TCP). A browser talks to a
server, and a server sends data back.

In distributed systems land this is often referred to as Remote Procedure Call
(RPC, where "procedure" means "function"), which means servers call other
servers to perform tasks, and send the result back once they're done. This is
often also done using TCP, but opinions on which encoding layers to use differ
(e.g. JSON, msgpack, protobuf, capnproto).

A `REQRES` call can be visualized as:
```txt
    ┌──────────┐
    │  Client  │
    ├──────────┤
    │   REQ    │
    └──┬────▲──┘
       │    │
 Hello │    │ World
       │    │
    ┌──▼────┴──┐
    │   REP    │
    ├──────────┤
    │  Server  │
    └──────────┘
```

In this exercise we'll create a `REQREP` pair using `nanomsg`.

## Task
Create a `req`/`rep` socket pair using `nanomsg`. Send the string `"is this"`
from `req`, and reply with `the real RPC?` from `rep`. When the `rep` socket
receives a string, log it. Also log when the `req` socket receives a response.
Close both sockets once a call is complete.

## Tips
- just like with `HTTP`, `REQREP` socket pairs need to connect to the same uri
- use `tcp://` instead of other connection methods to simulate real-world
  behavior locally - Erlang does this too, and to great success
- the `RES` socket holds the `TCP` socket; the `connect` keyword signals that
- data is passed as Node buffers between sockets. Wrap the received buffer in
  `String()` to cast it to a string.
- all `nanosmg` sockets in Node are implemented as streams, therefore listeners
  such as `.on('data')` and `.on('error')` work as expected.
- `nanomsg` is blocking, therefore it's safe to use `res.send()` with multiple
  requests coming in. More on this later

## Opening a client socket
```js
const nano = require('nanomsg')
const req = nano.socket('req')
req.bind('tcp://127.0.0.1:7789')
req.send('hello')
```

## Opening a host socket
```js
const nano = require('nanomsg')
const rep = nano.socket('rep')
rep.connect('tcp://127.0.0.1:7789')
rep.on('data', function (data) {
  console.log(String(data))
})
```

## See Also
- http://zguide.zeromq.org/page:all#header-11

---
[Click here to go to the next exercise](build/02.html)
