# 3 - PUBSUB
Sometimes a system produces data that has multiple consumers. In computer
science terms this is a "one-to-many" relationship.

```txt
                ┌──────────┐
                │    PUB   │
                └──────────┘
                      │
       ┌──────────────┼──────────────┐
       │              │              │
 ┌─────▼────┐   ┌─────▼────┐   ┌─────▼────┐
 │   SUB    │   │   SUB    │   │   SUB    │
 └──────────┘   └──────────┘   └──────────┘
```

A single publisher produces data, and __all__ subscribers receive the data.
This is different from the PUSHPULL systems that we described in the last
section, where data is randomly distribued between multiple consumers.

An example PUBSUB system is that of a change feed. Whenever values are
persisted to a database, a publisher reads out the changes and starts
publishing them. Subscribers then listen to those events and can do things like
send push notifications, aggregate metrics or trigger other parts of the
system.

Sending all data to every subscriber is quite inefficient, so in order to only
send the relevant bits PUBSUB systems usually expose something called
"channels" (or "topics" if you like). Subscribers usually know what data
they're interested in, so they can hook into the desired channel.

Generally there are two kinds of feeds. The first kind is the traditional
pub-sub where the server sends data and the clients receive it. This type of
system is simple to implement, but lacks any type of backpressure.

The second kind of system is a stream with cursors, where the server stores a
feed (indexed linked list of the sorts) of data and clients keep cursors on
where in the feed they are. If a client disconnects they can fetch data right
where they left off when they reconnect. This style of system was popularized
by Apache's Kafka, and forms the basis of the (at the time of writing) upcoming
Redis `STREAM` data type.

Nanomsg's `PUBSUB` primitive can be leveraged to create both types of feed. In
this section we'll be creating a pub-sub system that can publish to multiple
topics.
